---
title: Recap of 2017 and what I expect of 2018
summary: In 2017 I got a great job, lost 17kg, start running and exercizing. What 2018 going to be like ?
---

I know it's a bit late for this, but I _finished_ my blog about right now. 2017 was a hell of a year for me, found a new job, start to exercice, got fit. I want to say the usual, but for me it's quite the opposite.

Early 2017, I bought a scale, and the first time I step on it, I didn't like what I saw, __97kg__. It's not like I'm obsess with my weigth, _au contraire_, I don't care, as long as I feel good.
This time, I was stuck in a job I didn't liked and wasn't in a good place in my life. And with that weight, I decided to work on myself.

I started with my alimentation, followed the _keto_ diet. For three month I completly removed carbs from my food and lost around 10kg. Around May, I started the Insanity Workout, lost almost 2 sizes. I started running after that, and became addicted to it. Ran the *Brussels Half Marathon* in October, finished in 2h12, and later that same month did the *20km des Ardennes* in 2h06.

In the mean time, I started to look for a new job, and, in March I started as a Backend Developer at Altavia-Act in Brussels. Managed to negociate flexible hours, I now start at 6am and finish around 3pm. Also managed to get a company car. When driving 160km a day, it's a hell of a perk. I started as a Backend Developer, but I'm now also in charge of our server infrastructures (a legacy server and couples of virtual servers), the deployments of our client websites and all the things in between.

Like every year, when 2018 arrived, I wrote down some *New Year Resolutions*, more like 2018 goals really. This blog is one of them.

When I was younger, I used to read and write a lot, and was relativly good at it. Over the year I lost most of my writing skills (as you probably figured reading this post), so this year, I'll try to write as much as possible about my personal experience and my work as a developer. I will try to write as much as I can, so I'll alternate between long detailed articles and smaller ones about a random though spinning in my head.

This year I also plan to run a marathon, told you I was became addicted to running, started the year with one more go at the Insanity Workout to get back in good shape after 2 months healing from an injury. You can follow me on [Strava](https://www.strava.com/athletes/22947514).

The hardest goal to achieve this year, will be to socialize more. I have the bad habit to stay alone most of my personal time and not to socialize outside of work with my coworkers. Not really a fan of people in general, never been good at small talk.
