---
title: Jumping into the Front-end
summary: This is my first step into the Javascript post jQuery era.
category: vue
published: true
---

I'm experiencing a PHP burnout since last January. We're coding at work at an insane speed because of, you know, deadlines, 
and the last thing I want to do at home is to write some more PHP code. Don't get me wrong on this, I love PHP and the Laravel 
ecosystem, but I spend eight hours a day working with it, and I don't really have an interesting side project at the moment. 
I've spent the last four months playing some PS4 games such as Spider-Man, Red Dead Redemption 2 and Shadow of the Colossus 
(this one is my all-time favorite game and they made a remake for the PS4 with a really improved graphics so I had to 
re-play it and complete all the achievements 😅).

It has been almost two years since I said for the first time `Oh, this Vue thing looks awesome, I should dig on it sometime`. 
I worked a week remotely from my parent's and spent a few days there to switch-off a bit. I used that free time to read, 
watch some Netflix shows and lately to finally put my hands on Vue.

What can I say, from my point of view it was really weird at first and time-consuming since I needed to check everything 
on Stack Overflow ([Seriously](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8511281/check-if-a-value-is-an-object-in-javascript), 
[anything](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3895478/does-javascript-have-a-method-like-range-to-generate-a-range-within-the-supp) 
[you can](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32647215/declaring-static-constants-in-es6-classes) 
[think of](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25217706/converting-object-to-array-using-es6-features) 😂). But I was enjoying 
every single line of code. I decided to build the [classic snake 🐍 game](https://snake.davidllop.com) using components and 
I have to say that the result is better than what I've expected. There are still a few bugs and a few checks to complete on the 
road map that I don't know if I will ever finish, but I'm pretty happy with the experiment.

Learning how to structure the code, or where each line belongs wasn't easy at first, I think I have a pretty good idea now, 
at least for the basic like `created`, `data`, `props` and `computed`. The hardest step was to put some tests in it. Thanks 
to [Adam Wathan](https://adamwathan.me/) and [his amazing course](https://course.testdrivenlaravel.com) it's really hard 
for me to write code without tests anymore, so I was struggling with myself to learn a bit of Vue first before adding 
tests 😖. After finishing the project I tried to follow a few tutorials about how to add tests to a Vue project but no 
matter how many I followed, the terminal always blew up. After a few hours, I found one that said you can install the test 
suite along with the project from Vue-cli. I proceed to remove my glasses, do a strong facepalm, put them back on and create 
a new project. The example test ran so smoothly that I feel really stupid for my previous waste of time. I copied all the 
code to this new project, added some tests, check everything was fine and pushed to the repository.

The next day [Christoph Rumpel told me](https://twitter.com/christophrumpel/status/1119848518162821120) he fought the same 
issue half a year ago. The funny part is that I had already read that post when it was published but couldn't remember at 
the time I was experiencing the same as he did. So, as I see it, start to code and see the changes in the browser is great, 
but nothing is so much satisfying as a green test passing. You can focus on the interface later.

I'll not become a front-end or even a full-stack developer anytime soon, we already have a front-end team at the company, 
but I'm enjoying this experience like a child. I consider myself as that kind of person that can't just stop learning new stuff.